---
title: "Godkiller Chapter Summary - 12 - The Ticking of Time"
---
 - **Chapter begins on the criminally early morning of the 17th of Spring, Annum 4466**
 - Our heroes departed the Beast's Ball with more questions than answers. Deimos most of all. He seemed perturbed by something. A knowledge that on the 21st of Spring, Victory Day. At the 18th bell in cliffside square, something bad was going to happen. The very same time Lord Curtis Renaull was to give his speech.
 - Deimos warned his friends of this. They believed him, but they were concerned about the source of this knowledge. 
 - They pressured him for information, he only explained that it was like a gut feeling, and that he was somehow keeping them safe by not telling them more.
 - Being unable to get Deimos to open up, the group bedded down for the night, exhausted.
 - Cyrus had reached the precipice of sleep when something rattled within his bag. A peculiar nesting doll with some strange being held inside it. It whispered to Cyrus, telling him that someone at the ball was wearing a "mask" and not the kind of mask one would conventionally associate with a masquerade. The nesting doll said it was the same kind of mask Cyrus wore.
 - In the morning, the party awoke after barely enough sleep to find The Three Fools waiting downstairs in the Immarum. They had come to apologize for the chaos of the night prior, assuring the party that they hadn't been comfortable with the plan the Guild had wrapped them up in.
 - They also warned that Rione Elsitor was still at large, and he was the presumed assassin of Lord Mavis Morp.
 - Tardich warned that they weren't the only visitors for them at the tavern that morning. Master Colin Coinge had come as well, and he had brought someone along with him. A man who Tardich had known as a young boy apparently. A good sort, and no stranger to the type of chaos the party often found themselves in.
 - Mallory Bosemann, or Mal for short, was an academic guild member with a prosthetic metal hand. He had been hired by Colin Coinge to accompany our heroes as a sort of eyes and ears in the ongoing 1-5 Potentium Investigation. The circumstances were strange, but apparently this sort of supervision was now the only thing that kept the party out of prison.
 - Mal seemed nice enough. Professional mostly. Though being associated with Colin Coinge painted him in a less than favorable light.
 - The party was reminded by Colin Coinge that on the coming day they would have to take on mop duty. Though, Adja Corsair was able to get their trespassing fines from the night prior waived. 
 - Hoping to get it out of the way early, the group headed for the guild. Chapter Frond, ever friendly, greeted the party and seemed to be a friend of Mal's. So much so that he shares drinks occasionally with him and Professor Abby. This gained Mal a modicum of trust from the party.
 - The party soon learned that they could in fact perform their mop duties early, and that Colin Coinge seemed to have mislead them for some reason. They also discovered that they would be conducting these duties along side Bennet Frence. Mal and Bennet also knew each other. Mal's teasing of Bennet garnered him more respect from the group.
 - Splitting off into three groups the party found that their afternoon would not be entirely wasted.
	 - Magnus, Mal, and Bennet spent their morning scraping bird droppings off of a maintenance balcony near Gilligan's Lift where they learned a bit about Bennet, the fact that there was a ton of evidence against Master Willem Bellard in the 1-5 Potentium Investigation, and that Colin Coinge was the one who was tasked with looking after all of the Warforged Bodies after the attack. Mal also realized he had been given a letter for the party. A message, addressed to "The Uninvited" from the mysterious fortune teller that simply read "Well done".
	 - Deimos and Sherman were sent to a building called Block 1618 where they found the Office of Master Willem Bellard. Through the keyhole they found and oddly pristine office, save for a window left open. Sherman pressed Deimos further in regards to his odd sense of coming danger. He managed to convince Deimos to meditate on the feeling and Deimos found himself seeing an odd interlocking web of fibers for the briefest of moments. A natural structure that seemed to cover every surface, but most notably Wall'e and himself. Even Sherman had a few on him. The time in Block 1618 concluded with the discovery of a strange, transient, friendly creature that looked like a pitch black one-eye'd slug.
	 - Cyrus and Rozwald were sent to a nameless warehouse. They had been tasked with cleaning up a crime scene of all things. Apparently someone had broken into it some time ago, got caught, killed three guild members, and fled without stealing anything. Supposedly the suspect was a fellow named Salt. It was an odd robbery as the contents of the Warehouse were very mundane. Nothing of value worth the risk of going after Guild Property. Two pieces of evidence were found. The first, A trail of blood contaminated by "Principal Overrun" indicating the perpetrator was doped up on some poorly made, magical substance. The second was a singular crate of rift iron horseshoes that had been target in the ransacking. A present warehouse attendant also said that some of his rift iron materials were going missing.
 - After mop duty, the party decided to see Fox's Hollow to find the locks that belonged to their mysterious keys.
 - It took some time, but eventually they were able to find an old Tabaxi farmer named Leonard Bebother. He brought them to the old, dying town. Supposedly, it paid its taxes to a Lord Stoneshard. There wasn't much reason to go to a place such as Foxes hollow, the town didn't even have a Tavern.
 - Upon arriving, the group was faced with wary locals, and a challenging task. How does one find a lock that goes to a key in a whole town?
 - The group began to contend with the issue when Deimos spotted a tower over the hill upon which the town was built. Reminiscent of the one shown to them during their recent Tarot Reading.
 - It was an old, tired, forgotten structure. A long abandoned tavern that had stood the test of time despite its neglect.
 - Near the door, Rozwald found a moss covered metal sign on the ground. The Lumberjack.
 - **Chapter ends on the afternoon of the 17th of Spring, Annum 4466**