# Sympathetic Bonds
A sympathetic bond is a mental connection formed by a [[Caster]] between Space, Matter, Energy and their own cognition. It operations on the principal of Likeness.
-  A simple example of the usage of [[sympathy]] would be a [[caster]] with 2 copper coins on a table. The coins are in no way magical, but if the [[caster]] convinces a part of their brain beyond a shadow of a doubt that they are the exact same coin, they become sympathetically bonded. The [[caster]] can now convince an separate part of their brain in the same way that if one coin moves, the other will move as well. These 2 parts of the brain need to be entirely separated, almost as if they were separate minds on their own. This is called [[Splitting]]. When done successfully, any force applied to one coin affects both coins.
	- If you were to lift this coin, you would feel that it weighs a little more than double its normal weight. This is because overall the coins are about 98% alike. They are the same material, shape, and carry the same significance. This is the principal of Likeness. In actuality, the coin would weigh slightly more than double, as [[Sympathetic bonds]] are imperfect.
	- One could also split their mind to bond them thermally. Tossing one coin in the fire would cause the other to glow red with heat sympathetically.
		- Other more complicated bonds could be formed. For instance, a feather of a raven could be used to hunt a partridge by snapping the birds neck. This is however extremely inefficient as they are only about 20% alike at best, and would require a great deal of [[Splitting]] and [[energy]].
		- Academic [[Arcana]] is based on finding very efficient, practical, and replicable bonds to create a [[Spell]].
	- The usage of these bonds in an ad hoc manner is sometimes referred to as prestidigitation.