---
title: "Teleportation Circles"
---The most efficient, and expensive form of travel. [[Teleportation Circles]] are magical constructions utilized by Casters as a both a destination and origin for their teleportations. Teleporting is an extremely temperamental and dangerous thing when simply from moving to one place to another. This is magnified by the distance travelled. However, if one can be familiarized with their origin and destination, it becomes many degrees easier. [[Teleportation Circles]] are constructed to emit very loud and specific informational [[Energy]] signatures. Magic users will memorize themselves with these signatures, greatly reducing the chance for error, and increasing their range.

The designs of teleportation circles are often mistaken for [[Iron Light]] or [[Iszertion]], however they are neither of these things. They are merely unique patterns created with magical materials, such as [[Chalkstone]], to serve as a landing point. Their circular shape is use for efficiency due to a property of the mathematics surrounding informational [[Energy]]. The informational [[Energy]] signature that they emit quickly degrades, unless the circle is regularly redrawn in the same place. Once it has been redrawn for about 380 to 420 days (about a year) it becomes permanent. This is a result of [[Nodes]] being left in a constant state for so long, they have trouble reverting to their old state, like a leather shoe that has been stretched to fit ones foot perfectly.

All circles are unique, it is possible to draw a circle exactly like another, but its location will cause it have a different signature. A circle must be known by a [[Caster]] for them to use it. This can be known by physically seeing it and memorizing it, or by viewing diagrams and the supporting geographical information. Because of the logistics of defense and fraud, teleportation circles are well kept secrets. The chambers that hold them are deep under well guarded buildings, usually city keeps, and have many clever defenses. Not all are the same, and some even have no defenses. However most follow a common pattern.

Firstly, they are always surrounded by armed guard. Going in and out of the facility that contains the circle requires individuals to pass through a security checkpoint. The room itself is also armed with magical traps and illusions in case a hostile force were to invade it. There are also set mechanisms in the room to destroy the circle if it ever becomes a threat. Lastly, illusions of light and fog cover the floors of the room to obfuscate the shape of the teleportation circle. Only specific and accredited [[Caster]]s are allowed access to the index of shared teleportation circles across all major cities.

These shared teleportation circles are called Convergences. Most cities have a Convergence, and some even have more than one. A city many not have a convergence if they lack the magical influences required, and some do not share theirs with the outside world such as [[Yorn et Gaul]] and [[Corinth]]. Many more private teleportation circles exist, but these are not publicly known in the same way as Convergences.

Teleportation leverages complex [[Conjuration]] magic, and it must be conducted by skilled [[Caster]]. Because of the logistics, time invested into education, convivence, and the low number of people who can perform teleportation, it is very expensive to hire someone who can teleport you.

*For more information on Teleportation, see [[Conjuration]]*