---
title: "The Edgeless Nature of Zol"
---At the edges of [[Zol]]'s maps lies the unknown. Those who venture beyond these edges of the explored world do not often return. No mortal knows how large [[Zol]] truly is, and this *Edgelessness* exists in more ways than one. Many cartographers and explorers will venture around treacherous regions, far from the edge of the map, such as [[The Witchlands]]. They will learn its shape, and illustrate it as a forest of beautiful trees. When asked for details about these trees, the secrets and complexities held within, the map makers cannot provide true answers. These inner edges, drawn as a crowd of simplistic trees, or a wall of imposing mountains, are thinner than the paper they are written on. [[Zol]] is edgeless, inside and out.

*Edgeless*, is a term often used by the people of [[Zol]] to describe the dangerous and unknown. It is used to describe more than just maps. People, places, and things can be edgeless as well. It exists on a sort of spectrum, some things only seem edgeless after they have been carefully understood, while others almost seem to radiate Edgelessness like a shining sun. The following is an example of this phenomena:

A commoner, who lives a simple, comfortable life heads into their usual tavern to find an unknown traveler sitting in their preferred seat. Emboldened by anger after a long days work, the commoner confronts the drifter. However, their anger is quickly replaced with fear and regret when the traveler turns to face them. Their features are not abnormal, but something about the travelers eyes strike the commoner with fear. There is no magical trickery at play, but somehow, the commoner knows that the wanderer's eyes have seen things beyond comprehension. The stranger says nothing, merely watching the commoner with impassivity. Something about this stranger makes them seem like almost they *exist* more than every person in the room. They emit a feeling of power, and mystery simply by existing. The commoner realizes everyone else in the room has seemingly figured this out already, and flees the tavern. You do not cross someone who is *Edgeless*.