---
title: "The Hatiat"
---
[[The Hatiat]] are a well known nomadic culture within [[The Three Corners of Civilization]]. Diverse groups of closely knit individuals travelling from city to city via long convoys of caravans. No other nomadic tradition has been able to survive as long as [[The Hatiat]]. This is because their traditions are best suited to survive [[The Dangers of the Wilderness]]. There are many aspects to Hatiatan Tradition which make it distinct, but the aspects which specifically lend themselves to [[The Hatiat]]'s resilience are what have made it so significant.

## Culture of Resilience
Most nomadic traditions die off or disband within a few generations. [[The Hatiat]] are unique as they have remained despite the challenges of nomadic life. Their culture makes up almost all of nomadic history within [[The Three Corners]]. Many nomadic groups will often start under another name, but eventually convert to Hatiat as it is considered the safest way to live as a nomad. This effect has made [[The Hatiat]] synonymous with the term nomad. That's not to say that there aren't other nomadic cultures, just none so well founded. [[The Dangers of the Wilderness]] make life outside of cities harsh and unhospitable, however [[The Hatiat]] have developed a way to protect themselves, and lead life fulfilling lives.

Scholars Credit these 6 common traits amongst Hatiatan Caravans as the primary reasons for the culture's resilience.
- **Reliance on and Reverence of Cities** - The safest places within [[Zol]] are its cities. The Hatiat recognize this, so all of their journeys are focused on travelling from city to city. [[The Hatiat]] will set up camp outside of the city, living there for weeks or months at a time. They will conduct trade, and work for coin within the civilized regions of the world.
- **Authority Structure** - Caravans are lead by a single individual known as a **Wheelweather**. The role is gained by being selected by the previous Wheelweather. Wheelweathers are often known as being wise, worldly, intelligent, well respected, and well loved by their caravan. Typically they are at least halfway through their expected lifespan, but usually much older. Aiding the Wheelweather in their task are known simply as **Wheels**. The Wheelweather typically appoints one Wheel for every 9 people in a caravan. They also have the right to remove said role if need be.
- **Vigils** - Caravans cannot travel if they do not have protection. Vigils are individuals who posses the means to fight off [[The Dangers of the Wilderness]], and protect the caravan. Caravans usually will not travel if they do not have 1 vigil for every 9 members, with a minimum of 3 vigils. One can be both a Vigil and a Wheel/Wheelweather.
- **Political Neutrality and Favored Reputation** - One of the major tenants of Hatiatan culture is caravan members are not allowed to push back against religious, moral, or political cultures held within a city. [[The Hatiat]] see themselves as guests within each city. This makes many members uncomfortable, but it is what gained The Hatiat their favored reputation across [[The Three Corners]]. They are seen as unproblematic traders who come to their city, brining commerce and good fortune. However not every city sees [[The Hatiat]] in a good light. They are largely disliked in:
	- [[Jerda'll]]
	- [[Little Triumph]]
	- The entirety of [[The Glassius Reach]]
	- [[Hoss]]
	- [[Mod Dranor]]
- **Merchant Trade** - [[The Hatiat]] are known for their excellent merchants. The caravans will travel the world, gathering rare goods, information, and treasures. The trade of these goods are what keep a caravan going.
- **Taith, Toth, and Tarth** - Joining/Leaving a Hatiatan caravan is surprisingly simple. This allows for people to join caravans with little hassle. A larger caravan is a stronger caravan. The events of joining/leaving a caravan are marked with ceremonies. These ceremonies have great significance amongst Hatiatan Tradition. 
	- Joining with a caravan is known as **Taith**. One can approach a caravan and request to be tried for **Taith**. One of the Caravan's Wheels, or Wheelweather, will ask them a series of questions in front of an audience composed of caravan members. These questions differ with each **Taith**. The questions are often of a moral nature. If the individual passes the trial, and the caravan has the resources to accommodate them, they gain membership.
	- **Toth** is the leaving of a caravan. It is a solemn event. It is initiated by a caravan member telling one of their leaders that they intend to disband. It is a rare, and usually occurs when the caravan is stopped at a city. The caravan gathers round the individual who intends to depart, and they share their goodbyes. Then the individual will give the caravan a gift. This gift is not required to be of any specific value, but in Hatiatan Tradition the more sentimental, the better. However, many will also give coin, as running a caravan has a significant cost. If someone does not have anything to give, it is customary for them to gift the caravan the road dust from their boots. A symbol of their journey.
	- **Tarth** is the ceremony which marks an exile from the caravan. It is a dark thing within Hatiatan Tradition that is not often spoken of. If a member of the caravan betrays their group, they are branded with the symbol of a broken wheel. A circle with a much smaller circle in its center. The two circles are bridged by 6 lines representing the spoke of a wheel. One spoke for each of the kingdoms. The part of the outer circle between the first and second spoke are missing, representing the break in the wheel. It appears almost like a sliced pie, with a single piece removed. A person marked with this symbol is not allowed to even approach any Hatiatan Caravan in the future. Beyond that, most cultures around [[The Three Corners]] view [[The Hatiat]] with great favor, so those marked with the broken wheel are often not seen in the best light. Some caravans see this as the worst fate, so the will kill their traitors rather than conducting this ceremony.

## Other Aspects of Hatiatan Culture
Beyond their resilient culture, [[The Hatiat]] have many other traditions. They are known for their family-like bonds between caravan members, their songs, their art, their freedom of expression and religion (when not in a city that merits hiding those behaviors), and their food. Those who are part of [[The Hatiat]] typically join because want to see the world, have no where else to go, or were born into the lifestyle. This stimulates a diverse, and passionate culture. Each Caravan is distinct in their specific cultures, and demeanor in the same way that every family is distinct. Caravans will often identify themselves with a name and symbol.