---
title: "The Tarot"
---A cast of nomadic tribes originating all the way back to [[The Awakening]]. This long standing culture consists of diverse groups of people wandering all over [[The Three Corners]], following the wisdom of a Herald. Heralds are elders of the Tarot culture capable of divining truths about fate and the future through the usage of special cards called [[Tarot Cards]].

These cards are carefully crafted and cared for. They are not innately magical, but their connection to a person is a very sacred, and powerful thing. [[Divination]] magic can reveal that the once non-magical cards of a herald posses strong [[Divination]] magic of their own. According to members of [[The Tarot]] culture, this magic comes from the intent of the user placed upon the cards. The cards reveal paths the future may hold, and it takes a very keen mind to comprehend the messages held within the cards. Many use these cards, but few can comprehend them to the extent that a Herald can.

[[The Tarot]] travel all across [[Zol]] by caravan, going to where the cards take them. When an individual within a tribe reaches the potential of a Herald, the tribe splits roughly in two, and each half goes with one of the Heralds. Any person who wishes to join a tribe may do so, but they must adhere to the rules of that tribe decided upon by their Herald. If an individual acts against their tribe, they are banished. However, most are allowed to join with other tribes if they can find them. Those who are not allowed are given such a status by committing a  heinous act against their tribe. These individuals are branded with the symbol of a broken wheel, meaning they may no longer travel with [[The Tarot]]. The symbol itself is a simple circle with a line, longer than the circle is wide, passing through the center of the shape.

These people were known for their strange way of life during the [[First Age]], but their nomadic nature came to a stop on the day known as [[The Tarot Convergence]]. On this day, the Heralds were all brought to the same location by the fates told within their cards. At this spot, they founded the city of [[Zessgorn]]. A wonderous costal city which was soon adopted by the iron rule of [[Kapesh]]. It was made one of the Human cities, and those who were not human were enslaved. The foundations of The Tarot culture were largely kept within the city, but this loss was the first of many for [[The Tarot]] people.

The cities culture was based on the significance of their cards. To honor this, a set of magical rings were made using [[Imbuement Perpetuum]]. Each ring gave its wearer power, both magical and cultural. However a power struggle for these rings eventually broke out within the city, and the nature of the [[Zessgorn]] was reshaped. [[The Tarot]] culture suffered greatly from this. Eventually, the [[Alderian Rebellion]] occurred, and the culture began to regain semblance of its old ways. Many people of [[Zessgorn]] decided to leave, and pursue their ancestors old nomadic ways once again.