---
title: "The Triumvirate"
---The assumed progenitor races of Zol: [[Dwarves]], [[Elves]], and [[Humans]]. Many theories exist about the origins of these races and their place in the world. Some of which include: the will of [[Zolaen Gods]], a product of [[The Undoing]], or the most popular theory being some manifestation [[The Trinity]]'s power. 

The latter theory is largely based on artifacts uncovered from [[The Grand Nothing]]. These discoveries only include mentions, or remains, of [[Dwarves]], [[Elves]], and [[Humans]]. Each of which seemed to have possessed a lifespan centuries long, and a special connection to one of The Trinity's forces. The Dwarves with [[Observance]], the Elves with [[Viridescence]], and Humans with [[Arcana]]. These races also make up the largest percentage of the Zolaen population.

Much is inferred based on these 3 main facts. The information is also paired with many other smaller discoveries like biological traits, and what little history is available from the time directly after [[The Awakening]], before [[The Dragon War]]. Since [[Humans]] do not normally live for centuries in the modern age, it is largely assumed that [[The Undoing]] had something to do with [[Humans]], and effected their [[Great Magic]] as a result. Those who subscribe to the idea of [[The Triumvirate]] largely believe one of two things. Gethsemnean Triumviratism and Kapeshian Triumviratism.

## Gethsemnean Triumviratism
Gethsemnean Triumviratism theory originated amongst the elven and dwarven cities of [[Gethsemane]]. It views [[Humans]] unfavorably. The theory says that [[Humans]] strayed from the light of the [[Gods]]. As punishment, their longevity (also referred to as [[Great Magic]] in this context) was taken from them. This lost power was fragmented into the [[Off-Human]] races. This theory charges many polarized beliefs in many cultures, and is to blame for many dark parts of history. Including [[Slavery]], unethical arcane practices, and wars like the [[Triumvirate Battles]] or the [[Alderian Rebellion]]. This is the most widely accepted belief regarding [[Great Magic]].

## Kapeshian Triumviratism
Kapeshian Triumviratism theory originated within [[Kapesh]], and was largely founded in [[Ashian]] belief. It views [[Humans]] as a sacrifice in the context of [[The Undoing]]. [[Ashian]] belief says that [[Humans]] fought alongside the [[Zolaen Gods]] against [[The Shroud of the Void]]. In the later stages of the battle, [[The Shroud of the Void]] began to take over the minds of [[Humans]]. So the [[Humans]] willingly gave up their [[Great Magic]], giving the [[Zolaen Gods]] the upper hand to seal the [[Void Gods]] away permanently within [[The Void]].

## Issues with the Theory
There are many facts that contest this belief as well which include: longevity in Off-Human races, the fact that most of this is based on very little archeological information, the diverse difference of [[Language]] present after [[The Awakening]], and there being no modern true biological differences in the proficiency of harnessing The Trinity's powers when regarding the races en masse.