---
title: "Weaving - Lectures on Ferrication - 2"
---
*Previous part: [[Weaving - Lectures on Ferrication - 1]]*

Take everything you know about objects, and throw it out the window. Scratch that. Take everything you know, and throw it out the window. For our first lesson, we will be discussing the concept of domain. Domain is the heart of artificery. It is the culmination of the abstract rules that allow things to exist and interface with one another. Let's go back to our example of the simple spoon. What makes it a spoon? Its material? Its shape? Its use? Our perception? All of the above? Regardless of what makes it a spoon, the fact it is a spoon cannot be denied. It possesses its own nature. Domain is the aspect of reality that allows it to do so.

Yes, I understand that sounds complicated, deranged, and pointless. I assure you it's not. Allow me to simplify the idea. Let's imagine a world. A simple, two-dimensional box. The edges of our world are impenetrable walls. Nothing can exist outside of them, and nothing can pass through them. Inside our world are tiny dots. Let's say Three of them. And These dots like to move. When they are born, through your imagination, they pick a random direction and travel along that path. Straight line. At a continuous speed. If they hit an obstacle, be it the edge of our world or another dot, the path randomly changes direction.

It is a simple, and dull world, but it provides a useful example. For you see, in this world, there is a short list of domains we can easily understand. Firstly, the dots. They exist with a simple set of rules and behaviors. Domain. They move, bounce, repel, and persist until you stop imagining them. Then we have our walls. More domain. They are unique but somewhat comparable to our dots. Immutability and the fact they border our world make them distinct. However, their ability to repel things and the fact that they persist until you stop imagining them make them similar to our dots. Let's table this idea of shared rules for now. 

Most of you may think these two domains make up our world. However, some of you have identified that there is a third domain. The world itself. Or rather, the space our dots move through. Nothingness. The region that is bound by our walls. Its domain is defined by the fact dots can move through it, and how the walls bind it. The three domains paint a thorough picture of our world. But we are not done. If you have identified our fourth and final domain, you have the mind of an artificer. Perception. The fourth domain is the god-level domain. The rules that allow our world to be imagined, perceived, and altered by your mind.

I hope some of you see where this is going. Though, I expect a great deal of you to feel that this is philosophical nonsense. Fear not. It will make sense in time. The main point I am illustrating is that our cosmos allows a spoon to exist in the same way we have created these dots. Luckily for us, our cosmos also allows us to play with the very rules a thing subscribes to.